# FINDER (FInding key players in complex networks through deep reinforcement learning)


## Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Repo Contents](#repo-contents)
- [System Requirements](#system-requirements)
- [Installation Guide](#installation-guide)
- [Demo](#demo)
- [Results](#results)
- [License](./LICENSE)

# Overview

Finding an optimal set of nodes, called key players, whose activation (or removal) would maximally enhance (or degrade) certain network functionality, is a fundamental class of problems in network science. Potential applications include network immunization, epidemic control, drug design, and viral marketing. Due to their general NP-hard nature, those problems typically cannot be solved by exact algorithms with polynomial time complexity. Many approximate and heuristic strategies have been proposed to deal with specific application scenarios. Yet, we still lack a unified framework to efficiently solve this class of problems. Here we introduce a deep reinforcement learning framework FINDER, which can be trained purely on small synthetic networks generated by toy models and then applied to a wide spectrum of influencer finding problems. Extensive experiments under various problem settings demonstrate that FINDER significantly outperforms existing methods in terms of solution quality. Moreover, it is several orders of magnitude faster than existing methods for large networks. The presented framework opens up a new direction of using deep learning techniques to understand the organizing principle of complex networks, which enables us to design more robust networks against both attacks and failures. 

# Repo Contents

- [code]: including 'FINDER_CN', 'FINDER_CN_cost', 'FINDER_ND' and 'FINDER_ND_cost', four agents to reproduce the results reported in the manuscripte. 
- [data]: including synthetic data and real data used in the paper.
- [environment]: including the Docerfile, which can be directly used if using docker environment.



# System Requirements

## Hardware Requirements

The `lol` package requires only a standard computer with enough RAM to support the operations defined by a user. For minimal performance, this will be a computer with about 2 GB of RAM. For optimal performance, we recommend a computer with the following specs:

RAM: 16+ GB  
CPU: 4+ cores, 3.3+ GHz/core

The runtimes below are generated using a computer with the recommended specs (16 GB RAM, 4 cores@3.3 GHz) and internet of speed 25 Mbps.

## Software Requirements

### OS Requirements

The package development version is tested on *Linux* operating systems. The developmental version of the package has been tested on the following systems:

Linux: Ubuntu 16.04  
Mac OSX:  
Windows:  

The CRAN package should be compatible with Windows, Mac, and Linux operating systems.

Before setting up the `lolR` package, users should have `R` version 3.4.0 or higher, and several packages set up from CRAN.

#### Installing R version 3.4.2 on Ubuntu 16.04

the latest version of R can be installed by adding the latest repository to `apt`:

```
sudo echo "deb http://cran.rstudio.com/bin/linux/ubuntu xenial/" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list
gpg --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-key E084DAB9
gpg -a --export E084DAB9 | sudo apt-key add -
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install r-base r-base-dev
```

which should install in about 20 seconds.

# Installation Guide

## Stable Release

`lolR` is available in a stable release on CRAN:

```
install.packages('lolR')
```

## Development Version

### Package dependencies

Users should install the following packages prior to installing `lolR`, from an `R` terminal:

```
install.packages(c('ggplot2', 'abind', 'irlba', 'knitr', 'rmarkdown', 'latex2exp', 'MASS', 'randomForest'))
```

which will install in about 30 seconds on a machine with the recommended specs.

The `lolR` package functions with all packages in their latest versions as they appear on `CRAN` on December 13, 2017. Users can check [CRAN snapshot](https://mran.microsoft.com/timemachine/) for details. The versions of software are, specifically:
```
abind_1.4-5
latex2exp_0.4.0
ggplot2_2.2.1
irlba_2.3.1
Matrix_1.2-3
MASS_7.3-47
randomForest_4.6-12
```

If you are having an issue that you believe to be tied to software versioning issues, please drop us an [Issue](https://github.com/neurodata/lol/issues). 

### Package Installation

From an `R` session, type:

```
require(devtools)
install_github('neurodata/lol', build_vignettes=TRUE, force=TRUE)  # install lol with the vignettes
require(lolR)
vignette("lol", package="lolR")  # view one of the basic vignettes
```

The package should take approximately 40 seconds to install with vignettes on a recommended computer. 

# Demo

## Functions

For interactive demos of the functions, please check out the vignettes built into the package. They can be accessed as follows:

```
require(lolR)
vignette('lol')
vignette('pca')
vignette('cpca')
vignette('lrcca')
vignette('mdp')
vignette('xval')
vignette('qoq')
vignette('simulations')
vignette('nearestCentroid')
```

## Extending the lolR Package

The lolR package makes many useful resources available (such as embedding and cross-validation) for simple extension. 

To extend the lolR package, check out the vignettes:

```
require(lolR)
vignette('extend_embedding')
vignette('extend_classification')
```

# Results

In this [benchmark comparison](http://docs.neurodata.io/lol/lol-paper/figures/real_data.html), we show that LOL does better than all linear embedding techniques in supervised HDLSS settings when dimensionality is high (d > 100, ntrain <= d) on 20 benchmark problems from the [UCI](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/index.php) and [PMLB](https://github.com/EpistasisLab/penn-ml-benchmarks) datasets. LOL provides a good tradeoff between maintaining the class conditional difference (good misclassification rate) in a small number of dimensions (low number of embedding dimensions).

# Citation

For usage of the package and associated manuscript, please cite according to the enclosed [citation.bib](./citation.bib).
